Hello everyone and welcome to linear regression with our part 3 in this final lecture of the linear
regression series we're going to be looking at some advanced visualizations capabilities by just plotting
your model and creating predictions off our test set.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
OK so here in our studio again we've already split the date into training and test set we ran our model
and we interpreted the model and we went ahead and plotted the residuals in the last lecture.
Something I want to show you is if you go ahead and run this model scripts so that you have your model
train advanced visualization should perform with your model such as Q-Q plots or plotting your residuals
versus the actual values.
You can just say plot model enter and you'll get four plots.
You hit return.
See the next plot.
Can Know how to do that now.
And there's various plots you can see there's residuals Russa's fitted values.
There's the normal Q-Q plot the scale location plot and the residuals versus Leveridge plot.
These are all more advanced plots for you to check out if you're already very familiar to stick's behind
linear regression.
If you're not and you want to figure out how to actually interpret these plots go ahead and check out
the link in the note book which is the Wikipedia page on regression validation.
Also make sure you do the reading and I SLR because a lot of this is covered there as well.
But again this is mostly just residual plots that you can get directly off the model.
The way to do that one more time is just by saying plot model let's go ahead and move along by actually
getting predictions off our model then go ahead and clear the consul here in order to actually see how
well our models performing what we want to do is not just a summary of model but use Riddick to grab
predictions off our testing set.
And this is basically the whole reason we were using the test train split.
I don't want to train my model on the training data and then test the model for new predictions using
the test data set.
It doesn't really make sense to predict the new data points off the training set because the models
actually already been trained and has seen all those training points.
I want to try to predict new values based off the test set something the models never seen before.
Let's go ahead and get started with predictions.
I'm going to make a variable.
Let me move this down a bit.
Move this over to the right and then make a variable called G-3 dot predictions.
And I want to use the Predict function from stats in order to do this to use to predict function.
All you have to do is pasan the model he created as a first arguments and then the second argument is
you're testing it.
You may be wondering will how does predict actually know what value I want to predict.
In this case that information is already in your model.
Your model already knows the formula and it knows you're trying to predict G-3 based off all the features
of your training data set.
That means when you are using the Predict function need to pass in the model that's already been trained
and your test set should basically look at exactly the same as your training set.
As far as formatting it should have the same columns and it should have the same factored features of
the columns etc. not the actual same data just the same format.
That's how you can grab the predictions.
Now what I want to do is grab the root mean squared error and I also want to be able to easily work
with this.
That means what I'm going to do is actually transform this into a data frame.
Let me go ahead and do that.
We have our predictions.
When I'm going to do is say results and I'm going to do a it and see binds with G-3 predictions and
the actual real values member and trying to predict the G-3 values that I'm going to name those columns
in my results and I'll pass in a vector of strings.
Call it predicted and actual and then I'm going to set that as a data frame as that data frame results
so I transform that matrix into a data frame and then go ahead and print the head of results make sure
that all works out OK.
That means if I check this out I move this up a bit.
What I've done is it created the data frame for each of the test data points.
Note that these numbers are inAmerica order because this was a random grab of the data frame that original
data.
That's why these aren't.
One two three four.
This is actually data point number four.
Happened to go to test data.
They do point number five up the go to testate etc..
These are the predicted values and these are the actual values of their final period three G-3 score
.
OK.
Something I want to note here is that when we plotted out the residual values we noticed that we had
a large amount of larger negative values.
And the reason for that was because our model was predicting negative final score test values or negative
final period values.
Now the lowest value you could get is a zero.
That means we're going to do is take care of those negative predictions.
I'm going to go ahead and say to zero is a function and we'll go to label this as take care of negative
values.
And my function is going to take in some X and it's going to say if X is less than zero return zero
then it's eventually going to apply this to my data frame.
Else if it's not negative I'm just going to return the actual value.
This case X. And that's my function there to zero.
And I'm going to go ahead and apply zero function.
There's lots of ways you could have done this but here's a very readable way to do it by just creating
this function.
Again this function is just to take care of negative prediction values and I'll show you what I mean
by that if we just say men of results.
Notice I have negative 2.7 which doesn't make sense that minimum should be zero.
So I'm going to go ahead and say results predicted is equal to as supply results predicted.
And I'm going to apply that to zero function.
The reason again I'm only doing it on the predicted is because the actual scores only go to zero.
I want to make sure any negative predictions get pushed up to zero.
That way we can improve our accuracy without actually detailing of our model.
OK.
There's lots of ways to evaluate the prediction values in one example for this is that mean square error
in the way we actually do this song O.S. mean squared error.
And this is kind of a measure of how off you are.
I can say MSCE the mean and my error is going to be my actual results minus my predicted results
squared.
And then take the mean that that's the mean square to Arendt's and then prints the MSEE out.
And if you want it can also sometimes do the root mean square error so we can do something like Prince
Amasia the power of negative or power of 0.5 which is the same as taking a square root of something
and go ahead and run this.
So control shift as to run that.
Let me go ahead and print a little notes here so say Prince.
Well first off we won't print this results and instead will just say here right before we print the
actual mean square error.
You going to put a little label here prince or Misi
Krantz square roots of MSCE.
Now let's go ahead and run that's a little cleaner.
And here we have three point ninety nine and one point ninety nine.
That kind of gives you an idea of your means greater of how off you are from these actual scores.
Something that may be a little easier to interpret is just the R-squared of value for the predictions
so how well does your model fit the predicted values.
Let's go ahead and run that.
Son going to go ahead and say the sum of these squared errors.
So again that's going to be a results predicted minus results actual square that's.
Now that we have S S E which is the sum of squared error.
What I want is the s s t value which is the sum of squared total and essentially the formula for R-Squared
is 1 minus SHC divided by SS t..
And again you could check out these formulas both an SLR and in the notes.
So here at ss t you are going to go ahead and do say some the mean of DSF G-3
minus results of actual.
And we're going to square that and then to order in order to get the actual R squared value we'll call
it R2 she's going to be one of minus SS C divided by SS t..
And then we'll go ahead and prints are squared.
And let's go ahead and just prints that are square to value are two.
Let's run that.
All right we check out our squared value.
It looks like it's 0.8.
That's not so bad for the testate it means we're explaining about 80 percent variance on the test data
.
Hopefully by now you should feel comfortable with the our syntax for actually creating a model of linear
regression.
If some of the plots or math did not make sense to you don't worry too much about it.
If you're interested in that go ahead and review Eisele are the introduction to school learning and
the relevant Wikipedia pages that are linked in the notebook and throughout the lectures that we've
been covering.
There is no real substitute for just taking the time to read about the material and understand the mathematics
behind it in order to fully understand how to interpret the results.
If you want you can treat these functions as just black boxes in order to do some quick and dirty analysis
on your data.
But for true data science and understanding the statistics behind it what it really takes is just taking
the time to read through the books read through the material and read through the Wikipedia articles
.
OK.
I hope you enjoy that.
Hope it was useful.
Up next is an exercise to test your knowledge on everything we just covered.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture